README.md, before:

# ansible-role-nfs-client

Configure NFSv3 client.

## Notes about NFSv4

NFSv4 is not yet supported.

# Requirements

None

# Role Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `nfs_client_mount` | list of mount configurations. see below  | `[]` |

## FreeBSD-specific Role Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `nfs_client_lockd_flags` | options for `lockd` | `""` |
| `nfs_client_statd_flags` | options for `statd` | `""` |

## Debian/Ubuntu-specific Role Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `nfs_client_rpcbind_flags` | options for `rpcbind` | `""` |
| `nfs_client_need_gssd`     | `NEED_GSSD` in `/etc/default/nfs-common` | `no` |
| `nfs_client_need_idmapd`   | `NEED_IDMAPD` in `/etc/default/nfs-common` | `no` |
| `nfs_client_need_statd`    | `NEED_STATD` in `/etc/default/nfs-common` | `yes` |

## `nfs_client_mount`

A list of NFS mount settings. Element is a dict of mount settings, which is
described below.

| Key | Description | Mandatory |
|-----|-------------|-----------|
| `path`  | mount point | yes |
| `src`   | remote NFS path to mount | yes |
| `opts`  | mount options | yes |
| `state` | one of `present`, `absent`, `mounted`, or `unmounted` | yes |

```yaml

```

# Dependencies

None

# Example Playbook

## FreeBSD

```yaml
- hosts: localhost
  roles:
    - ansible-role-nfs-client
  vars:
    nfs_client_statd_flags: "-h {{ ansible_default_ipv4.address }}"
    nfs_client_lockd_flags: "-h {{ ansible_default_ipv4.address }}"
    nfs_client_mount:
      - path: /mnt
        src: 127.0.0.1:/exports/foo
        opts: ro
        # do not mount, just modify fstab(5). NFS server is not available in
        # the test environment
        state: present
```

## Ubuntu

```yaml
- hosts: localhost
  roles:
    - ansible-role-nfs-client
  vars:
    nfs_client_rpcbind_flags: -w
    nfs_client_mount:
      - path: /mnt
        src: 127.0.0.1:/exports/foo
        opts: ro
        # do not mount, just modify fstab(5). NFS server is not available in
        # the test environment
        state: present
```

## CentOS

```yaml
- hosts: localhost
  roles:
    - ansible-role-nfs-client
  vars:
    nfs_client_mount:
      - path: /mnt
        src: 127.0.0.1:/exports/foo
        opts: ro
        # do not mount, just modify fstab(5). NFS server is not available in
        # the test environment
        state: present
```

## OpenBSD

```yaml
- hosts: localhost
  roles:
    - ansible-role-nfs-client
  vars:
    nfs_client_mount:
      - path: /mnt
        src: 127.0.0.1:/exports/foo
        opts: ro
        # do not mount, just modify fstab(5). NFS server is not available in
        # the test environment
        state: present
```

# License

```
Copyright (c) 2017 Tomoyuki Sakurai <tomoyukis@reallyenglish.com>

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
```

# Author Information

Tomoyuki Sakurai <tomoyukis@reallyenglish.com>

This README was created by [qansible](https://github.com/trombik/qansible)

Commit message:

[feature][bugfix] update README, remove hard-coded var for Ubuntu (#6)
* introduce nfs_client_nfs_common_flags

instead of hard-coding in the template

* remove unused variables and docment new one

* document NFS lock and the role

fixes #5

* QA

README.md, after:

# ansible-role-nfs-client

Configure NFSv3 client. This role enables locking mechanism in NFSv3. It is
possible to `mount(8)` NFS exports without extra configurations. If you do not
need locking in NFSv3, the role does not provide anything other than managing
NFS mounts in `fstab(5)`.

## Notes for OpenBSD users

As OpenBSD does not support NFSv3 lock in client-side, the role has little use
for OpenBSD users.

[`rpc.lockd(8)`](http://man.openbsd.org/rpc.lockd.8) states:

> The current implementation provides only the server side of the protocol
> (i.e., clients running other OS types can establish locks on an OpenBSD
> fileserver, but there is currently no means for an OpenBSD client to
> establish locks).

## Notes about NFSv4

NFSv4 is not yet supported.

# Requirements

None

# Role Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `nfs_client_mount` | list of mount configurations. see below  | `[]` |

## FreeBSD-specific Role Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `nfs_client_lockd_flags` | options for `lockd` | `""` |
| `nfs_client_statd_flags` | options for `statd` | `""` |

## Debian/Ubuntu-specific Role Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `nfs_client_rpcbind_flags` | extra options to be passed to `rpcbind` | `""` |
| `nfs_client_nfs_common_flags` | dict to override `nfs_client_nfs_common_flags_default` | `{}` |
| `nfs_client_nfs_common_flags_default` | dict of variables for `/etc/default/nfs-common` | see below |

### `nfs_client_nfs_common_flags_default`

```yaml
nfs_client_nfs_common_flags_default:
  NEED_GSSD: ""
  STATDOPTS: ""
```

## `nfs_client_mount`

A list of NFS mount settings. Element is a dict of mount settings, which is
described below.

| Key | Description | Mandatory |
|-----|-------------|-----------|
| `path`  | mount point | yes |
| `src`   | remote NFS path to mount | yes |
| `opts`  | mount options | yes |
| `state` | one of `present`, `absent`, `mounted`, or `unmounted` | yes |

```yaml

```

# Dependencies

None

# Example Playbook

## FreeBSD

```yaml
- hosts: localhost
  roles:
    - ansible-role-nfs-client
  vars:
    nfs_client_statd_flags: "-h {{ ansible_default_ipv4.address }}"
    nfs_client_lockd_flags: "-h {{ ansible_default_ipv4.address }}"
    nfs_client_mount:
      - path: /mnt
        src: 127.0.0.1:/exports/foo
        opts: ro
        # do not mount, just modify fstab(5). NFS server is not available in
        # the test environment
        state: present
```

## Ubuntu

```yaml
- hosts: localhost
  roles:
    - ansible-role-nfs-client
  vars:
    nfs_client_rpcbind_flags: -w
    nfs_client_mount:
      - path: /mnt
        src: 127.0.0.1:/exports/foo
        opts: ro
        # do not mount, just modify fstab(5). NFS server is not available in
        # the test environment
        state: present
```

## CentOS

```yaml
- hosts: localhost
  roles:
    - ansible-role-nfs-client
  vars:
    nfs_client_mount:
      - path: /mnt
        src: 127.0.0.1:/exports/foo
        opts: ro
        # do not mount, just modify fstab(5). NFS server is not available in
        # the test environment
        state: present
```

## OpenBSD

```yaml
- hosts: localhost
  roles:
    - ansible-role-nfs-client
  vars:
    nfs_client_mount:
      - path: /mnt
        src: 127.0.0.1:/exports/foo
        opts: ro
        # do not mount, just modify fstab(5). NFS server is not available in
        # the test environment
        state: present
```

# License

```
Copyright (c) 2017 Tomoyuki Sakurai <tomoyukis@reallyenglish.com>

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
```

# Author Information

Tomoyuki Sakurai <tomoyukis@reallyenglish.com>

This README was created by [qansible](https://github.com/trombik/qansible)
